Исходный текст: 
nonhome with the African homes described by anthropologists.4 The minimum home has orientation even if it lacks any inside-outside boundary; usually it has both, so that the cardinal points are not mere coordinates for plotting position but "directions of existence."5 Most of the homes we know are not organized on lateral principles, right and left, but on a front-back axis. Sometimes the orientation of a home marks all four axes, back-front, up-down, two sides, and inside-outside. Why some homes should have more complex orienting and bounding than others depends on the ideas that persons are carrying inside their heads about their lives in space and time. For the home is the realization of ideas. Virtual Space and Time A fertile approach to the idea of home comes through the philosopher Suzanne Langer.6 She reproached philosophy for separating artistic appreciation from the idea of rational thought. She herself proposed to unite the various, divided cognitive faculties under the single rubric of "presentational" thought. This term she used for the perception of abstract analogies. She focused on the rational activity of projecting or mapping on the world analogic structures of bodily and emotional experience. Since she was writing in the early 1940s, she was a long way ahead of postmodern structuralism. Linguistics produced both structuralism and semiotics, and came into anthropology and literature through language. Langer couched her argument as a protest against a too heavily language-based approach to rationality. So though she was actually leading semiotics before it 4 Mary Douglas, "The Body of the World," International Social Science Journal 42 (August 1990): 395-399. 5 James Littlejohn, "The Temne House," Sierra Leone Studies (New Series), no. 14 (December 1960): 63-67. В° Suzanne Langer, Philosophy m a New Key, 3d ed. (Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 1957); idem, Feeling and Form (New York: Scribner, 1977). This content downloaded from 66.241.104.242 on Wed, 5 Nov 2014 05:51:54 AM All use subject to JSTOR Terms and Conditions A KIND OF SPACE 291 was launched, in some sense when Langer was swimming against one kind of linguistics tide, from another direction anew linguistics tide was flowing in her direction. Langer proposed that kinaesthesia works by creating analogic structures from one experience to another. Starting with music, and following the insights of German musicologists, she suggested that the distinctive characteristic of art forms was to create their own dimensions of experience, or to set up analogically and in a limited frame the dimensions of other experience. She used the terms "virtual" or "seeming" or a "semblance of" a commonly known dimension. By this usage, as she was at pains to say, she did not mean to draw a distinction between "virtual" and "real." Reality and unreality have nothing to do with her topic. Her ideas on analogic perception in art were forerunners of later work in philosophy on depiction and analogy. For example, she wanted to consider "presentational" thought because she rejected utterly the idea that representation was the artist's objective. She insisted that art is not a depiction, a copy of something else that is not art. Art for her is a communicative effort that makes specialized projections of the common dimensions of experience. This is why art should never be separated from reason if we are to understand rational processes. Here she would be close to Nelson Goodman's work on varieties of projection and notational schemes in science and art.7 Langer would also agree that analogies are not mere aids to theory. She would support Mary Hesse's argument against Duhem that analogies are not adjuncts to reasoning to be kicked aside by the scientist after the theorizing is complete in its mathematical form. The theory itself is a model as well as an elegant mathematical expression.8 For Langer, analogies are not images; they are logical tools of understanding. She would be close to Mary Hesse's ideas of analogies in science as 7 Nelson Goodman, Languages of Art, 2d ed. (Indianapolis: Hackett, 1976). 8 Mary Hesse, Models and Analogies in Science (New York: Sheed & Ward, 1963). This content downloaded from 66.241.104.242 on Wed, 5 Nov 2014 05:51:54 AM All use subject to JSTOR Terms and Conditions 292 SOCIAL RESEARCH working models, and of theories as analogies.9 In philosophical theories of representation the sign is distinguished from something else that it represents. Unlike our real everyday experience of signs, the semioticians tend to start with identifying the sign as something static, fixed by convention, whereas it is only relatively stable, and easily transformed. Presentational thought, as Langer introduced it, is more open-ended, dynamic, more biologically based, freer from convention. It includes the maker of signs and the perceiver in one interaction. In human cognition it is a faculty for scanning a whole scene and its abstract structure.10 To some, Langer's writing on art will seem too mechanical, dealing as she does first with music, then with pictorial art, then with sculpture. But the formalism is necessary to an exposition of how we come to understand the categories of time and space. When she says "virtual time" or "virtual space," translate "virtual" into independent or autonomous. So music projects a virtual time, its own time, and each piece of music creates a separate autonomous time pattern of its own. Music gives a formal sample of the temporal patternings of the body, and the time patterns of the day; it is a presentation of patterned time, rife with tension and surprise, rousing and satisfying expectations of completion and return.11 She invites 9 Mary Hesse, The Structure of Scientific Inference (Berkeley: University of California Press, 1974). 10 She also seems to anticipate much work in anthropology and psychology that emphasizes the perception of part to whole in physical and social relations: Mary Catherine Bateson, "Mother-Infant Exchanges: The EpigГ©nesis of Conversational Interaction," Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences 263 (1975): 101-113; S. Runeson and Frykhol, "Visual Perception of Lifted Weight," Journal of Experimental Psychology, Human Perception and Performance 7 (1981): 733-740; Colwyn Trevarthen, "Communication and Cooperation in Early Infancy: A Description of Primary Intersubjectivity," in M. Bullowa, ed., Before Speech: The Beginnings of Human Communication (New York: Cambridge University Press, 1979); Colwyn Trevarthen and P. Hubley, "Secondary Intersubjectivity: Confidence, Confiding and Acts of Meaning in the First Year," in A. Lock, ed., Action, Gesture and Symbol (New York: Academic Press, 1978). 11 Leonard Meyer, Emotion and A: aning in Music (Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1956). This content downloaded from 66.241.104.242 on Wed, 5 Nov 2014 05:51:54 AM All use subject to JSTOR Terms and Conditions A KIND OF SPACE 293 us to replace ratiocinations about time by the more empirical work of modeling the experience of time. Turning from time to space, Langer says that pictures project a virtual scene: they make an autonomous projection of visual depth and distance, and a projection of visual clarity or confusion. A picture is a presentation of two-dimensional space. Going on from two-dimensional to three-dimensional space, she says that sculpture projects virtual kinetic volume; it presents an independent model of the body's experience of volume, weight, and motor control. Here she too briefly refers to the relation between dance, music, and body, drawing on the work of German musicologists and psychologists. Then she goes on to architecture, alas, even more sketchily: architecture is a "virtual ethnic domain." What does that mean? I suggest it is the idea of home. The ethnic domain is the domain of structured domesticity. It projects the most encompassing set of analogies: like music, it creates its own time rhythms; like a picture, it contrives its own spatial effects and its own regulation of vision and perception of distance; like sculpture it explores volume, movement, and bodily behavior in the gravitational field. As Langer says, architecture can also present the largest metaphors of society and religion; it can project meanings about life and death and eschatology into the everyday arrangements that it covers. In this vein, animal architecture of nests, lairs, shells, hives, and warrens readily project the ethnic domain. Hence the powerful attraction of popular zoology and entymology; hence the beloved fiction about animal homes, from the Jungle Books through Beatrice Potter's creations, Salar the Otter to Watership Down and Mickey Mouse; hence the grander mythic presentations of the ethnic domain under the water or in the sky, and the peculiar fascination of the homes of giants and dwarfs. In what follows, Langer's ideas about presentational thought in the ethnic domain will be applied to the production and use of a human home. This content downloaded from 66.241.104.242 on Wed, 5 Nov 2014 05:51:54 AM All use subject to JSTOR Terms and Conditions 294 SOCIAL RESEARCH A Memory Machine Langer's notion of virtuality suggests we should focus on the home as an organization of space over time. This reveals a distinctive characteristic of the idea of home. Each kind of building has a distinctive capacity for memory or anticipation. Memory institutionalized is capable of anticipating future events. Music is full of anticipation, with short and long cycles, but its time structure is independent of outside events. Everything takes place inside the musical composition. The home makes its time rhythms in response to outside pressures; it is in real time. Response to the memory of severe winters is translated into a capacity for storage, storm windows, and extra blankets; holding the memory of summer droughts, the home responds by shade-giving roofs and water tanks. Those are annual rhythms, but there are longer cycles, as testified by the standard pair of coffin stools always ready for the funeral wake in East Anglian houses. And shorter ones: to the onset of evening, the home responds with lighting; to strong light, with blinds. Children reading Robinson Crusoe are transfixed by his work of anticipation: candles, firewood, containers to catch and hold the rain, planks and other provisions from the wreck. The squirrel's autumn shopping cache, the storage arrangements of Swiss Family Robinson, the annual autumn shopping expedition in The Little House in the Big Wood, have the same essential appeal as the weekly shopping of the Yeoman's family before World War I: Tuesday had a special magic for me, when at four o'clock Mother and Father arrived home from market and unloaded the groceries from the high trap. Into the kitchen came a smell spicy as an Indian market. No sterile pre-packed food in plastic bags, but provisions selected by Mother like a connoisseur: cheese she had 'tasted', tea to her own blending, dates in large lumps carved from an even bigger block on the grocer's counter. I sniffed and guessed at the contents of the dark blue bags of rice, sago, spices, sultanas and other wonders. Out came biscuits in seven-pound tins, custard powder, candles, lampwicks, and This content downloaded from 66.241.104.242 on Wed, 5 Nov 2014 05:51:54 AM All use subject to JSTOR Terms and Conditions A KIND OF SPACE 295 elastic for garters and bloomers: packet after packet! Surely we should never want for anything again.12 Storage implies a capacity to plan, to allocate materials between now and the future, to anticipate needs. A stockingup anticipates a running-down of supplies, which implies continual reallocation, repair, renewal, in short an intelligent plan. For the sake of the plan, space is differentiated, parceled out, allotted to different intentions. This happens, obviously, in a railway station or a hotel. What makes storage different in a home is the scope of the intentions. A home has a much more comprehensive expectation of service. People do not normally expect to give birth or to die in hotels or railway stations, and the management gets upset when they do. Even the one-occupant home is a general service utility, an institution whose uses cannot be defined except as a presentation of a general plan for meeting future needs. The Commons Dilemma The well-stocked home presents in small the essential problem of the commons. Its reserves are going to be a common resource for the denizens of the home if they can restrain their impatience. With only one person, the free-rider problem is essentially the same, as Jon Elster has shown in his discussion of weakness of will where he transfers the conflict between persons to the conflict of wants within the person.13 If the homesteader consumes all his reserves in time of plenty, the home will be unable to supply his future needs. Unscheduled dipping into the larder, like the farmer eating the seed corn, incurs moral judgment on individual weakness of will. If the homesteader's desire are in conflict, it is the same 12 H. St. G. Cramp, A Yeoman Farmer's Son: A Leicestershire Childhood (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1986), p. 67. 13 Jon Elster, "Weakness of Will and the Free-Rider Problem," Economics and Philosophy 1 (1985): 275-306. This content downloaded from 66.241.104.242 on Wed, 5 Nov 2014 05:51:54 AM All use subject to JSTOR Terms and Conditions 296 SOCIAL RESEARCH as if, wishing to give up smoking for his better health, he cannot resist a cigarette, or if wishing to lose weight, he cannot resist a cream bun. Opportunism traduces his overall plan. Stealing from the future prosperity of his own home, he free-rides on his own attempts to make himself ahome,14 but the free-rider is the same person as the one who is providing the good things. This is the beauty of the model: since whoever free-rides on the goods of his own community is going to lose by its destruction. Neatly centralizing the conflict within the person, Elster opens a way of carrying the analysis further. He shows that the unit of analysis can be either a person or a community. If the latter, we can move on to consider what strategies the members need to deploy to strengthen their will to be a solitary group. There is not much that is mysterious about how they achieve solidarity and much that can be counted and measured. The home's capability to allocate space and time and resources over the long term is a legitimate matter for wonder. We are not surprised that the cupboard is often bare; what should amaze us is that it often contains an extraordinary variety of things that are going to be used through the year, mentally ticketed for different kinds of expected events. Even more amazingly, they have been stacked so that they can be found at the right times. The most precious, to be used on the grandest occasion, are safely on the highest shelves, out of reach because they are least frequently wanted, while the most everyday stuff, hardier and cheaper to replace, stands near at hand. The spacing of provisions provides another aidememoire for the totality of life within the home. In a much longer essay it would be possible to compare homes on the basis of how strongly the members are committed to the production of a collective good, or how much of it they succeed 4 The problem of weakness of will is usually treated as a problem within rational-choice theory about the possibility of an individual acting against his own preferred interests. See Russell Hardin, Morality Within the Limits of Reason (Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1988), pp. 191ff. This content downloaded from 66.241.104.242 on Wed, 5 Nov 2014 05:51:54 AM All use subject to JSTOR Terms and Conditions A KIND OF SPACE 297 in producing, and to say more about the other kind of homes which aim to produce spaces for individuals. For introducing the idea of the home as a collective good it will be enough to concentrate only on one kind of home, an extreme type in which the members have been working successfully for a long time on the common objective. The budget is the main instrument of structuring the collective effort. Through the budget the collectivity lays its finger on every allocation and qualifies every decision. The budget slots make a screen through which every private plan must pass lest individual demands put at risk the resources mentally set aside for the rent, the mortgage, the child's education, the summer holidays, the rainy day. However unformed its goals may be, the home protects it general plan with mutually adjusted budget slots. Children's pocket money has to be scaled to the wife's housekeeping money; she is in charge of the common purse. It would be absurd for her to have less than they do. Between the children, differentials have to be respected: if the younger gets more than the elder, problems of equity raise their head, with loud argument about fairness and function. For these reasons a home is a model for kinds of distributive justice. The reference to morality points a major difference between a home and a hotel. Both plan for the future, but the planning of the hotel follows criteria of cost efficiency. The reason why the home cannot use market reasoning is, to extend Suzanne Langer's term, that it is a virtual community. It is not a monetary economy, though a household could be. Suppose a group of people sharing the rent of a house, each with his or her own timed access to the cooker and corner of the larder, each coming and going independently of the others, each autonomously making plans and keeping careful check of requital for services rendered by the others- that would be a household. They would settle conflicts over scarce resources by bargaining on semimarket principles. They would argue about their claims in terms of functional priorities or in 

Вариант 4: Латиница, по количеству символов в слове, по убыванию, игнорировать числа, сортировка Шелла.
Количество слов: 2841
Время сортировки: 0.450378
Статистика (количество слов каждой длины): 
[1] - 93
[2] - 503
[3] - 539
[4] - 387
[5] - 276
[6] - 244
[7] - 261
[8] - 167
[9] - 115
[10] - 128
[11] - 51
[12] - 36
[13] - 21
[14] - 15
[15] - 1
[16] - 1
[17] - 3
