Исходный текст: 
Ihe more we reflect on the tyranny of the home, the less surprising it is that the young wish to be free of its scrutiny and control. The evident nostalgia in much writing about the idea of home is more surprising. The mixture of nostalgia and resistance explains why the topic is so often treated as humorous. Dylan Thomas left home at an early age. His Portrait of the Artist as a Young Dog has a story about two men, outcasts from seaside suburbia, standing under the pier and wistfully speculating on what would be happening at home. Given that it is five o'clock in the evening, they know quite precisely that curtains are being drawn, the children being called in to tea, and even what tea will comprise. In Less than Angels Barbara Pym, that coolly detached recorder of homes, has an ironic passage about the suburban home of two sisters. After supper the dishes are cleared and the house made ready for night; every day before retiring one sister sets the table for tomorrow's breakfast, then both go up to bed; every night, before extinguishing the light, the other sister creeps down again to have one last look at the breakfast table in case something has been forgotten, and is very relieved if she manages to avert catastrophe by straightening a fork or adding a plate that should be there. These are affectionate images of home as a pattern of regular doings. Other images are frankly hostile. The very regularity of home's processes is both inexorable and absurd. It is this regularity that needs focus and explaining. How does it go on being what it is? And what is it? SOCIAL RESEARCH, Vol. 58, No. 1 (Spring 1991) This content downloaded from 66.241.104.242 on Wed, 5 Nov 2014 05:51:54 AM All use subject to JSTOR Terms and Conditions 288 SOCIAL RESEARCH Home certainly cannot be defined by any of its functions. Try the idea that home provides the primary care of bodies: if that is what it does best, it is not very efficient; a health farm or hotel could do as well. To say that it provides for the education of the infants hardly covers what it does, and raises the same question about whether specialized school or orphanages would not do it better. We will dismiss the cynical saying that the function of the home in modern industrial society is to produce the input into the labor market. As to those who claim that the home does something stabilizing or deepening or enriching for the personality, there are as many who will claim that it cripples and stifles. This essay makes a fresh start by approaching the home as an embryonic community. If it sounds platitudinous it is because many sociologists think of the embryonic community as modeled on the idea of a home. This relic of nineteenth-century romantic enthusiasm has been a stumbling block in sociology, where it is assume d too easily that the survival of a community over many vicissitudes does not need explaining. On this line of thought both home and community are supposed to be able to draw upon the same mysterious supply of loyal support, and further, their inner sources of strength are unanalyzable: thanks to a kind of mystic solidarity home and small local community are supposed to be able to overcome the forces of fission that tear larger groups apart. space. Home is "here," or it is "not here." The question is not "How?" nor "Who?" nor "When?" but "Where is your home?" It is always a localizable idea. Home is located in space, but it is not necessarily a fixed space. It does not need bricks and mortar, it can be a wagon, a caravan, a boat, or a tent t. It need not be a large space, but space there must be, for home starts by bringing some spa

Вариант 4: Латиница, по количеству символов в слове, по убыванию, игнорировать числа, сортировка Шелла.
Количество слов: 645
Время сортировки: 0.0304217
Статистика (количество слов каждой длины): 
[1] - 20
[2] - 140
[3] - 119
[4] - 118
[5] - 75
[6] - 47
[7] - 38
[8] - 30
[9] - 27
[10] - 15
[11] - 8
[12] - 4
[13] - 3
[17] - 1
