Исходный текст: 
The same easy-to-use Snapchat capture, edit, and storage experience carries into the Pixy. Simply click in the stick-like battery cartridge into the drone by lining up the metal contact plates, turning the dial on the drone to standby mode, and holding the capture button for seven seconds to sync the Pixy with the Snapchat app. ThereвЂ™s no assembly to worry about, and the propellers are protected within the enclosure of the 0.2-pound design so youвЂ™re up and recording high quality aerial footage in under a minute of unboxing. The pocket-friendly 5 x 4-inch Pixy sits on the palm of your hand and is comparable to the size on an iPhone 13 Pro, but it also comes with a bumper case necklace for secure and easy travel.To use the drone, you hold it up to your eye in the palm of your hand and turn the silver physical analog wheel to select from five total capture modesвЂ”one custom and four pre-set flight modes (hover, reveal, follow, and orbit). Then press the yellow top button to kick off a flight. The LED indicator will blink green, then the drone takes off without the need for consulting a controller or the Snapchat app. Once itвЂ™s recording, the LED indicator will shine white. All video or photos are stored aboard the generous 16-GB storage space to be exported after each 30 or 60 second capture is complete.Hover, the first of the five capture modes has the drone take off from your hand and act as a cameraman on a tripod. It will pan left and right as it tracks you at head level. Next on the wheel is the Reveal shot, which backs away for a wide view of your space and is helpful for zoom in or out shots. Third is the Follow Mode indicated by a circle and an arrow; while I ran down the beach or walked around the office, the Pixy accurately tracked with a stable over-the-shoulder view. And as I tried this mode inside, it even avoided kitchen cabinets, flew up steps, and followed me around an office buildingвЂ™s columns and curves without hitting anyone or anything. Next up is the Orbit mode, which sends the drone out to a capture a 360-degree surround shot. This is best for getting video from heights. The final iconвЂ”indicated by a star on the physical shot selection wheelвЂ”is a favorite setting to which you can customize shot type, distance, and recording timing.Capturing Film-Like FootageZooming out as I stood on a golf course. (Note that the video is compressed from being uploaded.)I found myself pleasantly surprised by the 2.7K quality of each capture. The PixyвЂ™s footage is stable and looks especially clear in sunshine, which can often cause overexposure or detail loss. I did push its limits by taking an orbit shot with the drone circling the water at the beach (Snap advises against this lest the drone plummet and you lose it in the waves). I did almost lose it in 14-mph gusts of wind. But at 7 mph or less, you have clear and smooth motion tracking. The camera even captured some of Connecticut shore line from the New York side of the Long Island sound, which is barely visible by eye and high resolution cameras. And when at the pool, it captured details like the cracks in patio bricks from 25 feet in the air and textures from the rubble at a construction factory over the fence. The Snapchat Pixy drone pans in the air to follow the subject itвЂ™s tracking.TREVOR RAABADVERTISEMENT - CONTINUE READING BELOWThereвЂ™s no sound to accompany the video. But this isnвЂ™t a loss, especially given that, with the previous two drones IвЂ™ve purchased, I cut the audio from the videos anyway due to interfering blade noise and muffled voice recordings. Your videos are stored on a generous 16 GB of onboard storage, which should be enough for around 1,000 videos. You can batch import them into the Snapchat app and edit them there or even export them to other platforms like Messenger, Instagram, and TikTok.Instant Editing and Sharing Adjusting flight paths and video capture length from the Snapchat appTREVOR RAABOpening the app gives you power over controls and edits. Everything is highly customizable, be it the distance you want to send the drone out, how high you want it to climb, or even how long the drone will take to complete an orbit.The four edit options are one-tap effects: Bounce (creates a GIF), Orbit 3D (quickly adds space to the sides of a subject), Hyper Speed (which accelerates the playback speed of a clip), and Jump Cut (puts together the most engaging clips). With these to select from, I produced music-video like content. Beyond social sharing, you can easily export captures into your camera roll or preferred video-editing app in horizontal or vertical formats.For all its benefits, the PixyвЂ™s battery life absolutely needs work. All of this simplicity comes at the cost of flight timeвЂ”even with the dual charger pack, I ran through all three batteries on an average of just four minutes per stick. ThatвЂ™s enough for two 30-second shoots of each shot type per battery. But donвЂ™t plan to shoot extensively without breaks to charge, or bringing a portable power bank. Batteries took, on average, one hour to fully charge from completely dead, which is good but not great, especially if you want to capture the perfect shot like a golden hour sunset.

Вариант 4: Латиница, по количеству символов в слове, по убыванию, игнорировать числа, сортировка Шелла.
Количество слов: 900
Время сортировки: 0.0595229
Статистика (количество слов каждой длины): 
[1] - 33
[2] - 133
[3] - 189
[4] - 168
[5] - 113
[6] - 89
[7] - 64
[8] - 45
[9] - 27
[10] - 20
[11] - 6
[12] - 4
[13] - 3
[14] - 3
[15] - 2
[17] - 1
