»ÒıÓ‰Ì˚È ÚÂÍÒÚ: 
The Most Interesting Thing You‚Äôll Read This Week: How to Dress Up a Pet DoorMake that unattractive hole in your door or house look a little better with this DIY overhang.  BY ROY BERENDSOHNMAY 23, 2022 As those of you who own pets know, a pet door is a utilitarian solution. It solves the problem of pet access while creating an unattractive opening in a door or the side of your house. My friend Tom and I were studying such a pet door recently when we developed the fix you see here (mostly Tom‚Äôs idea). It not only improves the look of the entry, but shields it slightly in rainy weather. Your pet might also find a little shade under it in hot weather.This little shed roof is easy to make. You can mount it on the sides of the opening so it doesn‚Äôt interfere with your dog or cat getting in or out. And because it‚Äôs screwed to the opening itself, you don‚Äôt have to worry about attaching it to the house‚Äôs siding, which could leave entry points for water. Any weather-resistant material will do; we used scrap of some T1-11 siding and PVC exterior wood trim. Here‚Äôs how to go about making one.Materials and Tools‚Ä¢	üß∞ Circular saw‚Ä¢	üß∞ Miter saw (optional)‚Ä¢	üß∞ Brad nailer (optional)‚Ä¢	üß∞ Square‚Ä¢	üß∞ Tape measure‚Ä¢	üß∞ Hammer‚Ä¢	üß∞ Plywood or T1-11‚Ä¢	üß∞ Wood trim or PVC trim‚Ä¢	üß∞ Construction adhesiveStep 1: Template and Sides ADVERTISEMENT - CONTINUE READING BELOWTo begin construction, use cardboard from a discarded box to cut out a template as shown. This will guide you in cutting out the sides and determines the roof slope. It‚Äôs an added grace note if the slope of the roof corresponds to that of the house‚Äôs roof, but your pet won‚Äôt care. Once the template fits the opening, trace it on one piece of siding material. Double up the siding to cut both pieces at the same time.MORE FROM POPULAR MECHANICSThe Missing Square PuzzlePlay VideoStep 2: Add Trim The interior of the pet door opening here was cased in construction lumber, but yours may be more nicely finished. If so, you can skip this step; otherwise, trim it out with some scrap pieces of PVC attached with 2-inch, 18-gauge stainless-steel exterior brad nails. Likewise, if your pet door has exterior wood trim that‚Äôs in good shape, you can leave it alone. If it doesn‚Äôt, remove it‚Äîas we did in the case of this pet door‚Äîand replace it with PVC for a neatly trimmed opening, inside and out.Step 3: Assemble ADVERTISEMENT - CONTINUE READING BELOWNext, we used 2-inch exterior wood screws to attach the sides we had cut out earlier. We simply screwed the sides through the PVC trim and into the lumber that framed the opening. We cut the roof out of T1-11 and used a little construction adhesive and plentiful 18-gauge nails to attach the roof to the sides.RELATED STORIES 9 Best Vacuums for Pet Hair 8 Best Dog Seat Belts of 2022 The Best Pet Water Fountains The roof over the pet door adds a finishing touch to the opening, converting it from a hole in the side of your house to an entry that has received nearly as much care as any other door.The Best Ice Machines for Every OccasionOur expert recommends a host of cool choices, including undercounter and countertop ice makers. BY JONATHAN BENDERMAY 26, 2022 STAFF, COURTESY OF EUHOMYI remember the first time I moved into a house that had an ice machine built into the refrigerator. It felt like the height of luxury. And that‚Äôs what standalone ice makers offer: ice on demand, a luxury for anyone that‚Äôs ever had plastic or silicone trays as their only option.Ice machines have evolved to meet our beverage passions. You can get clear, Instagram-worthy ice for cocktails or crunchy little pellets like the ice from a soda fountain. Whether you need to fill a glass or a cooler, there‚Äôs an ice maker out there for you, and we put together a list of the 10 ice machines that make sure you stay chill.Best Ice Makers‚Ä¢	 BEST FOR COCKTAILSEuhomy Portable Ice MakerEUHOMYRead More$230 AT AMAZON‚Ä¢	 BEST SPACE SAVERMagic Chef 27-Pound Portable Ice MakerMAGIC CHEFRead More$119 AT WALMART‚Ä¢	 BEST PORTABLE ICE MAKERIgloo Automatic Self-Cleaning Portable Countertop Ice MakerIGLOORead More$140 AT AMAZON‚Ä¢	 BEST VALUENewair Countertop Ice MakerNEWAIRRead More$280 AT AMAZON‚Ä¢	 BEST PELLET ICE MAKERGE Profile Opal 2.0 Nugget Ice MakerGERead More$550 AT AMAZONLOAD MORE The Expert: I‚Äôm a food writer who regularly creates recipes and tests appliances for national publications. You‚Äôll also find my work on bookstore shelves as I‚Äôve authored Cookies & Beer, and Stock, Broth, & Bowl. I‚Äôve owned portable ice cube makers, scooped pounds of ice out of commercial machines as a waiter, and learned the value of nugget ice from living in the Midwest for nearly two decades. After talking to bartenders and artisan soda makers, I‚Äôve also come to believe that there is a particular type of ice for every drink.Types of Ice Makers and How They WorkIce machines are good at making ice, but they aren‚Äôt freezers. Ice inside will melt eventually. In good news, the melt water is returned to the tank and made into ice again. A tip here: To get the most out of your ice machine and cut down on mineral build-up, use bottled, distilled, or filtered water.Countertop ice makers are built for small spaces, perfect for a pantry or RV. The average countertop machine makes nine to 24 cubes‚Äîenough for two or three glasses of iced tea‚Äîevery 6 to 20 minutes. But if you‚Äôre throwing a party, you‚Äôll need an undercounter or freestanding model depending on how much of the neighborhood is invited. Freestanding and undercounter ice makers typically have a dedicated water line and drain line (you might need a plumber or licensed contractor for the installation), whereas their countertop counterparts have a tank to hold water and a plug to drain it.If you want features beyond sensors that know when an ice tray is full, you‚Äôll likely have to spend more money. Self-cleaning cycles, timers, the ability to adjust ice thickness (thinner ice melts faster but is quicker to produce), and a larger capacity are more common on expensive models.Like diamonds, you should think about the shape and clarity of your ice before buying an ice maker. Bullet ice (cone-shaped with a hole in the middle) is made by cooled metal rods dipping into a pool of water. Clear cubes, like the kinds you see in craft cocktail bars, are produced in layers with water continuously flowing over a chilled rack. Pebble ice (often called Sonic ice or pellet ice) is made of flakes of ice that have been compressed together. Crescent ice are the half-moons you usually see in a freezer.How We Evaluated These Ice MachinesWhile I write about food and kitchen tools professionally, I also have relied on a countertop ice maker for several months during a kitchen renovation when our refrigerator was a mini fridge. To recommend the best ice makers, I compared the daily ice output, size, durability, and price of machines, as well as the type of ice produced. I looked at expert sites, like Wirecutter and Liquor.com, customer reviews from Amazon and Williams-Sonoma, and online videos of the machines in action. The 10 machines below are the best ice machines for a variety of needs and situations.BEST FOR COCKTAILSEuhomy Portable Ice Maker EUHOMY$230 AT AMAZON‚Ä¢	Variable ice thickness‚Ä¢	Self-cleaning‚Ä¢	HeavyKey Specs‚Ä¢	Daily Ice Output: 40 lb.‚Ä¢	Ice Cube Storage: 2.2 lb.‚Ä¢	Time to First Cubes: 12 min.‚Ä¢	Dimensions (W x D x H): 11 x 14.1 x 13.7 in.You can almost hear the clink of cubes in a cocktail with the Euhomy. This friend of a bartender produces clear, cubed ice, by running a waterfall over a rectangular grid that will mesmerize you through the large front window. At 25 pounds, it‚Äôs easy to move, but it‚Äôs more likely to stay put by your bar cranking out two dozen cubes every 15 minutes.BEST SPACE SAVERMagic Chef 27-Pound Portable Ice Maker MAGIC CHEF$119 AT WALMART$244 AT WAYFAIR$180 AT TRACTOR SUPPLY CO‚Ä¢	Compact‚Ä¢	Two cube sizes‚Ä¢	Fast-melting iceKey Specs‚Ä¢	Daily Ice Output: 27 lb.‚Ä¢	Ice Cube Storage: 1.5 lb.‚Ä¢	Time to First Cubes: 7 min.‚Ä¢	Dimensions: 9.5 x 14.1 x 12.9 in.This tiny ice maker, just 9.5 inches wide, is well-suited for apartment kitchens where counter space is limited. It‚Äôs small but mighty, with a slightly larger basket than similar models and can make nine cubes in seven minutes. Enjoy bullet ice at two sizes: small cubes for crunching and larger cubes for drinks.ADVERTISEMENT - CONTINUE READING BELOWBEST PORTABLE ICE MAKERIgloo Automatic Self-Cleaning Portable Countertop Ice Maker IGLOONOW 12% OFF$140 AT AMAZON‚Ä¢	Handle for carrying‚Ä¢	Self-cleaning option‚Ä¢	Small plastic scoopKey Specs‚Ä¢	Daily Ice Output: 26 lb.‚Ä¢	Ice Cube Storage: 1.25 lb.‚Ä¢	Time to First Cubes: 7 min.‚Ä¢	Dimensions: 10.5 x 13.9 x 15.3 in.Ice makers, like humidifiers, can build up scale if you‚Äôre using them infrequently. The Igloo Automatic 26-Pound Ice Maker has a handy self-cleaning mode and a handle that makes this ice maker easy to take with you. The retro look and aqua color, one of four available, is charming.BEST VALUENewair Countertop Ice Maker NEWAIRNOW 22% OFF$280 AT AMAZON$272 AT WALMART‚Ä¢	Programmable timer‚Ä¢	Three sizes of ice‚Ä¢	Takes up a lot of counter spaceKey Specs‚Ä¢	Daily Ice Output: 50 lb.‚Ä¢	Ice Cube Storage: 2 lb.‚Ä¢	Time to First Cubes: 7 min.‚Ä¢	Dimensions: 15.3 x 17.2 x 16.5 in.This square ice maker takes up a bit more counter space at 16.5 inches tall‚Äîstill small enough to fit under standard cabinets‚Äîand 17.2 inches deep. But the bigger footprint comes with the benefit of a larger ice bin (you won‚Äôt have to empty it as often) and nearly double the daily output of other budget countertop options. In this case, bigger is better, as it makes a dozen ice cubes in seven minutes.ADVERTISEMENT - CONTINUE READING BELOWBEST PELLET ICE MAKERGE Profile Opal 2.0 Nugget Ice Maker GE$550 AT AMAZON‚Ä¢	WiFi-enabled for remote operation‚Ä¢	Optional side tank available‚Ä¢	ExpensiveKey Specs‚Ä¢	Daily Ice Output: 24 lb.‚Ä¢	Ice Cube Storage: 3 lb.‚Ä¢	Time to First Cubes: 15 min.‚Ä¢	Dimensions: 13.4 x 17.5 x 16.5 in.Bells meet whistles. You‚Äôve probably heard about ‚Äúgood ice.‚Äù Technophiles will love the smartphone-syncing Opal (it works with Alexa and Google devices) that produces little ice pellets that promise a satisfying crunch you might crave. The trendy ice maker comes with a hefty price tag, but the sleek design in black or stainless steel looks nice on countertops, and the optional side tank (for $70 more) means less refills.EASY PEBBLE ICE DISPENSERKBice Self-Dispensing Nugget Ice Maker KBICE$495 AT AMAZON‚Ä¢	Dispenses ice at the push of a button‚Ä¢	BPA-free parts‚Ä¢	Needs 4 inches of clearance on each side‚Ä¢	Pricey for a countertop machineKey Specs‚Ä¢	Daily Ice Output: 30 lb.‚Ä¢	Ice Cube Storage: 2 lb.‚Ä¢	Time to First Cubes: 25 min.‚Ä¢	Dimensions: 16.6 x 20.5 x 23.4 in.This little rectangular ice maker begs you to tilt your glass underneath the dispenser and fill it to the brim with pebble ice. Don‚Äôt worry, there‚Äôs more being made. A simple push-button interface cranks out 1 pound of ice per hour. It also alerts you if the water is low, so you don‚Äôt have to miss your fix.ADVERTISEMENT - CONTINUE READING BELOWBEST CHEWABLE ICEGevi Nugget Ice Machine GEVINOW 33% OFF$400 AT AMAZON‚Ä¢	Quiet‚Ä¢	Large 3-quart water reservoir‚Ä¢	Pricey for a countertop machineKey Specs‚Ä¢	Daily Ice Output: 29 lb.‚Ä¢	Ice Cube Storage: 4.8 lb.‚Ä¢	Time to First Cubes: 15 min.‚Ä¢	Dimensions: 9.7 x 17.6 x 16.9Ice fans know that ice isn‚Äôt just for drinks. The Gevi nugget ice maker produces ice with a satisfying crunch and has a few smart features that are equally pleasing. It has a built-in sensor to start and stop ice production, as well as an option to use the included reservoir or hook up a water line for a continuous flow of water.SLEEK UNDERCOUNTER MACHINEKitchenAid 15-Inch Automatic Ice Maker with PrintShield Finish KITCHENAID$2,384 AT HOME DEPOT$2,649 AT KITCHENAID.COM‚Ä¢	High volume‚Ä¢	Lots of ice storage‚Ä¢	Might require hiring a plumber for installation‚Ä¢	ExpensiveKey Specs‚Ä¢	Daily Ice Output: 23 lb.‚Ä¢	Ice Cube Storage: 25 lb.‚Ä¢	Time to First Cubes: N/A‚Ä¢	Dimensions: 15 x 26.1 x 33.6 in.If you‚Äôve got a large household or regularly entertain, this KitchenAid is the kind of machine that keeps you from having to worry about running out of ice. The stainless steel front has a low profile, so it should fit right into your kitchen once you‚Äôve installed it below the counter. It also comes with an automatic defrost cycle for less upkeep and interior LED light.ADVERTISEMENT - CONTINUE READING BELOWBEST VALUE UNDERCOUNTER MODELEdgeStar Undercounter Ice Maker EDGESTAR$459 AT AMAZON$544 AT WAYFAIR$459 AT OVERSTOCK‚Ä¢	Larger bin storage‚Ä¢	Doesn‚Äôt require a drain line‚Ä¢	Smaller daily output‚Ä¢	NoisyKey Specs‚Ä¢	Daily Ice Output: 12 lb.‚Ä¢	Ice Cube Storage: 6 lb.‚Ä¢	Time to First Cubes: N/A‚Ä¢	Dimensions: 15 x 19.9 x 25.2 in.If you‚Äôre looking for a budget-friendly ice machine that‚Äôs not taking up counter space, this EdgeStar model with a stainless steel finish, reversible door, and slim footprint could be the answer. It‚Äôs built to work like a freezer with a bin that can hold up to 6 pounds of ice (along with an included scoop), meaning you should never have to wait for cubes or worry about ice melting.BEST WORKHORSEHomelabs Commercial 99-Pound Ice Maker Machine HOMELABS$530 AT AMAZON‚Ä¢	High daily output‚Ä¢	Deep bin‚Ä¢	Finicky water connection‚Ä¢	More complicated installationKey Specs‚Ä¢	Daily Ice Output: 99 lb.‚Ä¢	Ice Cube Storage: 29 lb.‚Ä¢	Time to First Cubes: N/A‚Ä¢	Dimensions: 17.6 x 15.7 x 31.4 in.The Homelabs Commercial ice maker looks like the machine waiting for you at the end of the hotel hallway‚Äîexcept you don‚Äôt have to be embarrassed if you‚Äôre caught wearing slippers and plopping a few, small square cubes in your iced coffee. The freestanding machine holds 29 pounds of ice at a time but needs a water line and drain line to run. It‚Äôs also rated for outdoor use, even if your slippers aren‚Äôt.

¬‡Ë‡ÌÚ 4: À‡ÚËÌËˆ‡, ÔÓ ÍÓÎË˜ÂÒÚ‚Û ÒËÏ‚ÓÎÓ‚ ‚ ÒÎÓ‚Â, ÔÓ Û·˚‚‡ÌË˛, Ë„ÌÓËÓ‚‡Ú¸ ˜ËÒÎ‡, ÒÓÚËÓ‚Í‡ ÿÂÎÎ‡.
 ÓÎË˜ÂÒÚ‚Ó ÒÎÓ‚: 2246
¬ÂÏˇ ÒÓÚËÓ‚ÍË: 0.330223
—Ú‡ÚËÒÚËÍ‡ (ÍÓÎË˜ÂÒÚ‚Ó ÒÎÓ‚ Í‡Ê‰ÓÈ ‰ÎËÌ˚): 
[1] - 106
[2] - 319
[3] - 455
[4] - 377
[5] - 311
[6] - 201
[7] - 149
[8] - 111
[9] - 64
[10] - 62
[11] - 22
[12] - 39
[13] - 7
[14] - 8
[15] - 7
[16] - 2
[17] - 3
[18] - 1
[19] - 1
[20] - 1
