Outdoor televisions bring a new world of entertainment options to your exterior living spaces. These screens boast bright backlighting and sharp resolutions to produce a crisp picture come rain or shine. While an outdoor projector serves as a more affordable and portable option, installing an outdoor TV offers much more immersive viewing. And, most importantly, they can withstand the elements and suns ray’s while living outside as permanent fixtures. You won’t need to live in fear of damage or an electrical fire thanks to their tough weatherproof construction.

Take a look at quick info on the best outdoor TVs, then scroll down for buying advice and in-depth reviews.

The Best Outdoor TVs
Best Overall: Peerless-AV Neptune Partial Sun Series 55-In. Outdoor TV
Best in Bright Sun: Séura Full Sun Series 65-In. Outdoor TV
Best Visual Performance: Samsung Terrace 65-In. Outdoor TV
Best For Games: SunBrite Veranda 3 Series 55-In. Outdoor TV
Durable: Furrion Aurora 55-In. 4K Outdoor TV
Most Intuitive: Kuvasong 55-In. Smart Outdoor TV
Things to Look For
outdoor tv testing
HUNTER FENOLLOL
ADVERTISEMENT - CONTINUE READING BELOW
Before you get an outdoor TV, consider the following: weatherproofing level, display brightness, TV resolution, operating system, and weight. Secondary factors to take into account include the type of wall mount you’ll need to hold the TV, whether or not you’ll need a sound system, and where you’ll be able to plug the TV in.

If you plan to place your TV under direct sunlight, you’ll want a screen with anti-glare protections in addition to a unit that has plenty of nits (this is a standard unit for measuring luminance—the higher the number, the better the brightness of the display). Don’t be fooled into thinking that stronger backlighting translates to a better picture quality. Case in point: The Seura Full Sun below is the best daytime outdoor TV because it’s ultra-bright screen is the most visible in direct sunlight and creates an excellent picture. But look at the colors and you’ll see they can appear washed out side-by-side with other models because the blacks aren’t as true and lean more toward grays.

You’ll also want to get a waterproof unit, especially if the TV won’t be covered by an awning or under a patio. This shouldn’t be too much of a problem since outdoor TVs are designed to withstand the elements, including harsher temperatures and wet conditions. Next, consider ambient noise and whether or not you’ll need a sound system to amplify the TV volume. You’ll also want to think about the setup of your backyard and where outlets are located.

RELATED STORIES

OLED Versus QLED: The Best High-Resolution TVs

The 10 Best 4K TVs

TCL’s Latest 6-Series: The First Affordable 8K TV
ADVERTISEMENT - CONTINUE READING BELOW
How We Tested
outdoor tv testing
HUNTER FENOLLOL
After researching the best selling weatherproofed outdoor TVs, vetting reviews using Fakespot, and talking to product managers, we called in the top models for evaluation. We lined each outdoor TV up along the back wall of our office so they each got the same exposure to sunshine, rain, and night conditions over the course of one week. We took a look at all of the points we mentioned above, noted picture quality, and took stock of overall design, features, and usability.

ADVERTISEMENT - CONTINUE READING BELOW
We adjusted each TV to the “Bright Outdoor TV” visual setting preset, which is the most vivid across the board and boosts brightness, contrast, and sharpness levels. To grab a baseline of image quality, we synced up the trailer for Top Gun: Maverick across each TV to spot differences in sharpness and colors. Each TV stayed out in the sun, shade, night, overcast, and rainy conditions over the course of the week in temperatures that fluctuated between 53 and 85 degrees Fahrenheit.

We looked for the TVs that were weatherproofed and could withstand seasonal changes, subzero temperatures, wet conditions, and ambient noise. We also looked for units across various price points to fit every budget and TVs with high nit ratings for easy visibility in direct sunlight. You’ll also find some highly rated options (the Furrion and Kuvasong) at the bottom, which we haven’t tested yet but could be a fit based on their prices and capabilities. If you don’t necessarily need the sizes we tested we’ve included buttons at the bottom of each review to other sizes in each model’s lineup.

—BEST OVERALL—
Peerless-AV Neptune Partial Sun Series 55-In.
Weatherproof standard: IP54, -22 to 122 degrees Fahrenheit | Display brightness: 500 nits | Resolution: 4K UHD, 60 Hertz | Operating system: LG WebOS | Weight: 38 lb


Neptune Partial Sun Series 55-In. Outdoor Smart TV
PEERLESS-AV
bestbuy.com
$2,299.99
BUY NOW
Superior operating system and smart features
 
Darks can hover on the edge of being too dark
ADVERTISEMENT - CONTINUE READING BELOW
Peerless-AV’s 55-inch Neptune is the best overall outdoor TV we tested and a clear step above the competition in nearly every aspect from design to performance. That’s while ringing in at the more affordable end of the spectrum. The lightweight frame weighs only 38 pounds yet thoughtfully includes easy-to-grip handles. Its IPS panel offers the widest viewing angles and strong picture performance. Lastly LG’s WebOS smart interface is the fastest and most feature-packed of the bunch—offering the most app variety and cross subscription functionality. You can download all of your services from HBO Max for the latest movies to Google Stadia for streaming games.

All of this is in addition to strong HDR performance and all weather toughness that leads the pack. While its blacks can be a bit much for contrast that looks a bit too dark, its saturation is great, resulting in a picture that is cleaner looking and much more film-like. This is especially apparent in shadow highlights like mountain reflections in water, where some details like a snowcap on the top are harder to make out. With that said, the explosions, blues in the horizon between the sky and ocean, and color gradient filters looked best on this TV.

The Neptune’s “Magic” remote allows for natural inputs like scroll, point, and motion controls to easily navigate through content. Surround sound optimization is built-in so you don’t need a separate sound bar for better audio. Since the Neptune is as thin and light as a regular 4K TV, one person was able to carry it around with ease. It offers VESA mounting as well as two slick remote controls (one indoor and one outdoor) for an affordable $2,300 price tag. In terms of the performance-to-price ratio, this Neptune model can’t be beat. Its lower nit brightness means it’s ideal for shaded spaces like a gazebo or bar or partial sun exposure. But if you plan to primarily watch TV in direct sunlight during the day, we recommend you take a look at the Séura model just below

ADVERTISEMENT - CONTINUE READING BELOW
—BEST IN BRIGHT SUN—
Séura Full Sun Series 65-In.
Weatherproof standard: IP55, -40 to 140 degrees Fahrenheit | Display brightness: 2,000 nits | Resolution: 4K UHD | Operating system: None | Weight: 104 lb


Full Sun Series 65-In. Outdoor TV
SÉURA
abt.com
$10,999.00
BUY NOW
Clear image, especially in sunlight
Matte anti-glare screen reduces glare
Fans to withstand extreme heat and cold
 
Expensive
Bulkiest TV in the pool
No onboard speakers or smart features
ADVERTISEMENT - CONTINUE READING BELOW
Séura’s Full Sun matte screen is large, bright, and fights off glare the best in our testing pool. While the 4K HDR picture looks sharp across all conditions like night, overcast, and rain, its daytime performance is the clearest. And it’s expensive, but if you plan to place a TV in the path of direct sunlight, you’re simply going to have to shell out the big bucks for it.

Side by side with the other models we tested, Séura’s Full Sun outdoor TV gets brightest, even the 1,500 nit-lit Samsung Terrace (which is advertised as a model meant for full sun). The matte screen best fights off the glare, reflections, and distortion. With that said, the Full Sun’s blacks aren’t as deep, so dark objects are bright and tend to look more like grays. This lower color reproduction is only noticeable side by side, but for use in the direct sunlight we’d trade off color accuracy any day. With the sun at its height, we still made out details like facial hair stubble on an actor’s face and environmental textures in the Top Gun trailer that were way too difficult to make out on any of the other models against the glare from the sun.

If you’re looking for smart features, don’t expect to find them here. This Séura model is a big dumb TV—and we mean that in the best way possible. It doesn’t require fussing around with a smart OS out of the box; you’ll simply need to plug in a streaming device. We hooked the Séura up to a Firestick 4K Max and were able to control power and volume levels directly from that streaming device’s included remote. While the included remote gets the job done, it’s basic fare for switching between input sources and adjusting image and sound settings.

While we’re talking audio, this is one of the few issues we have with Séura’s TV—it requires a separate sound bar or set of outdoor speakers since it lacks onboard audio output. Factor the cost of that and a streaming device into your purchase before committing. At 104 pounds, it is far and away the bulkiest outdoor TV we tested, which can be unwieldy for mounting on weaker anchor points or certain mobile cart setups. The matte screen more than makes up for this, but if you’ll mainly be outside at night, it’s harder to recommend over our top pick. All of this will come at a cost, though—and a pretty steep one at that. If you can spare ten grand to upgrade your outdoor space with a movie theater experience, the Séura Full Sun series is a no-brainer.

ADVERTISEMENT - CONTINUE READING BELOW
BUY 50-INCH FROM AMAZON

—BEST VISUAL PERFORMANCE—
Samsung Terrace 65-In.
Weatherproof standard: IP55 | Display brightness: 1,500 Nits | Resolution: 4K UHD | Operating system: Tizen OS | Weight: 80 lb


Terrace 65-In. Outdoor Smart TV
SAMSUNG
electronicexpress.com
$6,497.99
BUY NOW
Most accurate colors
Snappy Samsung Tizen OS
Sleek remote
 
Could be brighter
Heavy
ADVERTISEMENT - CONTINUE READING BELOW
If you want the cream of the crop, then Samsung’s Terrace is pricey but damn near perfect. We’re talking a theater-like 65-inch 4K QLED display and anti-reflective coating in addition to a max brightness of 1,500 nits for optimal viewing even in direct sunlight. The Terrace has the best color and saturation balance and the least overall image noise. It’s an attractive but thick version of your standard Samsung Smart TV fare. It runs on Samsung’s snappy Tizen OS (which supports both Alexa and Google smart assistants), the remote is sleek, and its picture is crisp thanks to auto-optimizing 4K AI upscaling to restore lost detail and reduce image imperfections.

Facial details, environmental details, and highlights pop—especially in the shade or darkness. It has much more lively saturation in the blues of water and reds of explosions. Skin tones can often take on more reds, but the result is a much more life-like appearance. Its blacks are the truest, which ultimately produces the most natural-looking picture. But exposed to direct sunlight, it doesn’t fare as well despite being a full-sun TV. For the price, it’s expensive and bulky without the protection of something like the Séura above with daytime performance that is good but not best. If you won’t be outside during the day or plan on placing this in a shaded area, this is the best looking TV we tested without any compromise in visual quality.

BUY 75-INCH FROM AMAZON

—BEST FOR GAMES—
SunBrite Veranda 3 Series 55-In.
Weatherproof standard: IP55 | Display brightness: 1,000 Nits | Resolution: 4K UHD | Operating system: Android TV | Weight: 40 lb

ADVERTISEMENT - CONTINUE READING BELOW

Veranda 3 Series 55-In. Outdoor TV
SUNBRITE
amazon.com
$2,898.95
BUY NOW
4K UHD at 120 Hz for gaming and sports
Local zone dimming
Android TV Smarts built-in
 
Poor sunlight performance
Small but mighty, SunBrite’s budget outdoor TV is packed with display features like local zone dimming, Dolby Vision support, and Quantum Dot colors on a bright 4K screen at 120 Hz. All of these technologies enhanced the NBA Playoffs as we watched the Heat and Celtics go head to head without motion blur. And this refresh rate also makes it the best outdoor TV for gamers since it offers the fastest image for competitive play and enhanced lighting for immersive single-player campaigns. In the shade or during the night, this TV delivers a rich colorful picture. Not only will you enjoy stellar footage in shaded areas, but the TV itself—plus its ports and remote—are all weatherproof.

ADVERTISEMENT - CONTINUE READING BELOW
This is the first Veranda model to come equipped with onboard Wi-Fi and Bluetooth connectivity, so you can stream media directly from the device or straight from your phone. Three different testers had no problems pulling up YouTube videos. Its 55-inch size will fit in even the tightest of spaces, offering the convenience of an outdoor TV without taking up too much room (but it does come in sizes up to 75 inches). The only downside is that while the speakers built into the system are fine if you live in a very quiet neighborhood, you’ll probably want to invest in a separate sound system if you’re near a busy street or a lot of commotion.

If you’re into video games or sports, this model boasts an impressive 120-Hz refresh rate for the smoothest motion in the test group. Its picture doesn’t look as crisp as some of the other models we tested, and the Android TV OS can occasionally lag. However, Google’s operating system opens the door for some seriously helpful smart features like Chromecast sharing, Google Assistant, and the Google Play store.

BUY 65-INCH FROM AMAZON

—DURABLE—
Furrion Aurora 4K 55-In.
Weatherproof standard: IP54 | Display brightness: 700 nits | Resolution: 4K UHD, 60 Hz | Operating system: None | Weight: 83 lb


Aurora 4K 55-In. Outdoor TV
FURRION
amazon.com
$2,299.99
BUY NOW
Designed to withstand harsh climates
 
Only compatible with wall mounts
ADVERTISEMENT - CONTINUE READING BELOW
Furion’s Aurora is a great fit for those living in areas that experience the brunt of all four seasons. Whether it’s blistering, freezing winds or hot summer days, this TV was designed to endure whatever the elements throw at it.

With an IP54 rating, the Aurora is capable of functioning in -4 all the way up to 122 degrees. Plus, it comes equipped with a sealed media bay gasket on the back that prevents input/output controls from getting wet. This TV is meant to be mounted to a wall and comes in four sizes to maximize your outdoor space no matter how big or small it is.

BUY 65-INCH FROM AMAZON

MOST INTUITIVE
Kuvasong 55-In.
Weatherproof standard: IP65 | Display brightness: 1,500 nits | Resolution: 4K UHD | Operating system: Kuvasong Smart | Weight: 77 lb


55-In. Smart Outdoor TV
KUVASONG
amazon.com
$1,799.00
BUY NOW
Smart TV connectivity
 
IR cord needs to be set up carefully to work
This Kuvasong smart outdoor TV features an external sound bar to help project audio over ambient noise for a top-notch movie night. It also has a 4K UHD anti-glare display, making it easy to see from almost any angle. Bonus: A wall mount comes included so you don’t have to worry about buying one separately.

BUY 65-INCH FROM AMAZON

DAISY HERNANDEZ
Daisy writes for Runner's World, Bicycling, and Popular Mechanics.
HUNTER FENOLLOL
Hunter Fenollol, our resident expert of all things consumer tech, from smart home to VR gaming headsets, has years of knowledge creating product explainers, in-depth reviews, and buying guides to help you get the most from the latest electronics.