Abstract—Increasing cost and demand of energy has led many organizations to find smart ways for monitoring, controlling and saving energy. A smart Energy Management System (EMS) can contribute towards cutting the costs while still meeting energy demand. The emerging technologies of Internet of Things (IoT) and Big Data can be utilized to better manage energy consumption in residential, commercial, and industrial sectors. This paper presents an Energy Management System (EMS) for smart homes. In this system, each home device is interfaced with a data acquisition module that is an IoT object with a unique IP address resulting in a large mesh wireless network of devices. The data acquisition System on Chip (SoC) module collects energy consumption data from each device of each smart home and transmits the data to a centralized server for further processing and analysis. This information from all residential areas accumulates in the utility’s server as Big Data. The proposed EMS utilizes off-the-shelf Business Intelligence (BI) and Big Data analytics software packages to better manage energy consumption and to meet consumer demand. Since air conditioning contributes to 60% of electricity consumption in Arab Gulf countries, HVAC (Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning) Units have been taken as a case study to validate the proposed system. A prototype was built and tested in the lab to mimic small residential area HVAC systems1 . Index Terms—Business Intelligence, Data Analytics, Energy Management System, HVAC, Internet of Things, MQTT, System on Chip. I. INTRODUCTION SING energy efficiently in smart homes saves money, enhances sustainability and reduces carbon footprint at large. Consequently, the need for smart energy management is on the rise for smart homes and for smart cities in general. However, the lack of low cost, easy to deploy, and low maintenance technology has somewhat limited a large-scale Manuscript received August 1, 2017; revised August 9, 2017; accepted November 15, 2017. Date of publication December 19, 2017. 1 This work was supported in part by the Department of Computer Science and Engineering at the American University of Sharjah, UAE. (Corresponding author: A. R. Al-Ali.) A. R. Al-Ali is professor of computer engineering with American University of Sharjah (email: aali@aus.edu). I. A. Zualkernan is associate professor of computer engineering with American University of Sharjah (email: izualkernan@aus.edu). Mohammed Rashid is teaching and research assistant at the American University of Sharjah (email: rashid@aebiss.com). Ragini Gupta is teaching and research assistant at the American University of Sharjah (email: g00049089@aus.edu). Mazin AliKarar is teaching and research assistant at the American University of Sharjah (email: b00066350@aus.edu). Color versions of one or more of the figures in this paper are available online at http://ieeexplore.ieee.org. Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TCE.2017.015014 deployment of such systems. The sheer quantity of data collected throughout different cities of a country presents multiple challenges in data storage, organization, and analysis. Internet of Things (IoT) technology and Big Data are natural candidates to address these challenges. IoT technologies can provide a ubiquitous computing platform to sense, monitor and control the household appliances energy consumption on a large scale. This data is collected using many different wireless sensors installed in residential units. Similarly, Big Data technology can be utilized to collect and analyze large amounts of data [1]. Data analytics on this data using business intelligence (BI) platform [2] plays an essential role in energy management decisions for homeowners and the utility alike. The data can be monitored, collected and analyzed using predictive analysis and advanced methods to actionable information in the form of reports, graphs and charts. Thus, this analyzed data in real-time can aid home owners, utilities and utility eco-systems providers to gain significant insights on energy consumption of smart homes. The energy service providers can use the power consumption data available with analytics engine to provide flexible and on-demand supply with appropriate energy marketing strategies. The consumers, being aware of their consumption behavior and having a close interaction with the electricity utilities, can adjust and optimize their power consumption and reduce their electricity bills. In order to have an effective cost saving system, it is important to monitor and control the operation of residential loads depending on the aggregate power consumption over desired period, the peak power consumption, the effect of weather/atmospheric conditions and consumption slab rates. This is where the combination of IoT technology, Big Data analytics and BI comes into play for implementing energy management solutions on a local and national scale. Finally, as an additional advantage, the use of IoT also enables seamless remote access control of home devices where the customers get online access to the ON/OFF usage pattern of in home appliances via a personal computer or a mobile phone. Rest of the paper is organized as follows. Previous work in using Home Energy management System (HEMS) is presented next. This is followed by the proposed system requirements. The system architecture is presented next followed by a description of implementation details. Evaluation and testing is described and succeeded by the conclusion. Energy management in the context of smart homes spans the three areas namely; Smart devices, Wireless Sensor Networks (WSN), and Home Energy Management System (HEMS). A HEMS requires a reliable communication network A Smart Home Energy Management System Using IoT and Big Data Analytics Approach A.R. Al-Ali, Imran A. Zualkernan, Mohammed Rashid, Ragini Gupta, Mazin AliKarar U 0098 3063/17/$20.00 © 2017 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission. See http://www.ieee.org/publications_standards/publications/rights/index.html for more information. 426 IEEE Transactions on Consumer Electronics, Vol. 63, No. 4, November 2017 using WSN that can transport the consumption details and consumer load behavior periodically. In [3, 4, 5], an implementation of a HEMS Unit in a Wireless Sensor Network using a ZigBee Module to communicate with sensor nodes, is presented. The system monitors the device consumption data and sends control signals to end nodes during peak load hours. However, the lifetime of a WSN network deteriorates with time due to the deployment of new sensors in the network. Additionally, Han et al. in [6] introduced a system for monitoring power consumption using ZigBee as the communication protocol in a WSN. However, in this system the data was collected and aggregated solely by the home server which could lead to data loss in case of a system failure. Moreover, a bridge between ZigBee and TCP/IP stack would be required to connect this system to a community of homes. The above mentioned WSN networks have been extended to wider ranges in the IoT paradigm utilizing the GSM/GPRS networks to remotely control the end-devices in [7, 8]. Various studies have been steered in the application of IoT environment for HVAC control and scheduling methods to optimize HVAC energy consumption [9, 10, 11]. A hierarchical, smart-home service architecture employed with multiple in-home displays for user interfaces is described in [12]. In this research [12], a home controller system interfaced with device sensors is responsible for aggregated energy reporting of all devices to home owners. For community representatives, a community broker server is integrated with different home network devices such as security cameras within a community. Furthermore, a comparative analysis between Message Queuing Telemetry Transport Protocol (MQTT) and Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is also performed to determine which protocol was more efficient in providing home control services [12]. The design of the proposed architecture, however, lacks the incorporation of Big Data which is instrumental in processing and analyzing huge volume of data collected from several home sensor networks. Authors in [13] emphasize on IoT based DC powered homes to develop a DC distribution system encompassing all residential DC-based loads that interact with each other. However, the lack of standardized protocols and regulations were the main challenges in considering intelligent DC powered homes as suitable replacement to AC power systems. Challenges could be overcome with IoT that will provide an integrated platform for DC powered technologies in efficient energy distribution. Multiple in-home display systems (IHDs) and automatic meter reading systems (AMR) were discussed in the context of providing energy management information in [14]. Depending on the ambient conditions, the smart home systems could choose the display devices such as TV, smartphone or tablet computers and accordingly select the appropriate user interface. The architecture, however, lacked a standardized user interface for all the home devices that could accomplish the requirement for multiple displays. A proposed architecture of HEMS utilizing power line communication was addressed in [15]. Using smart meter data, this HEMS can monitor and provide real-time information on home energy consumption along with online access to devices status, thus allowing remote control of devices by customers. The proposed design is based on standard HTTP protocol and does not provide support for lighter-weight communication protocol like MQTT which is essential to scale up the system in order to accommodate multiple residential areas. In [16], a residential gateway controller was developed with a central management system that generated an operation plan for all the connected nodes in a home network depending on weather conditions. The devices status and power consumption details were transported to the web server through an extensible markup language (XML) interface. Since XML files tend to be heavy weight for data delivery between browser and servers, the architecture will face significant bandwidth challenges in sending these large files across the network [16]. Additionally, the researchers in [17] propose a cost modelling scheme for an optimization based energy management model that aims at reducing energy expenses of consumers. Several scenarios such as local energy generation capacity, peak load hours of devices, length of cycle of each appliance, and time of use (TOU) tariffs have been taken into consideration for real time pricing of the application. In each case, the application was reported to reduce the energy expenses when compared to no energy management solution. EMS can be used to achieve a sustainable and significant reduction. Savings over 20% can be achieved on the long term using certified Energy Management Systems [18]. Another study found that Home energy management system can reduce electricity consumption by 16–19% potentially with acceptable discomfort [19]. Thus, home energy management system can be excellent add-on for home owners to reduce electricity consumption considerably while at the same time being more sustainable. The literature review indicates that various communication protocols in a WSN have been utilized in EMS for smart homes. However, for a seamless integration of all residential devices, an open-source light weight communication protocol is required. This will foster interoperability leading to scalable systems. Installation of home EMS can help home owners to understand contribution of each device towar